[DO NOT MERGE; WIP] (#9)
konveyor/community: contributor-ladder.md

## Contributor Ladder

Hello! We are excited that you want to learn more about our project contributor ladder! This contributor ladder outlines the different contributor roles within the project, along with the responsibilites and privileges that come with them.

### Community Participant
<!--This role spells out what's expected of general community participants.  This is the lowest
level of participation in the project, and as such many projects don't bother to
define it and leave this section out.-->
<!--TODO: project leads to fill in exact details of this role for your project-->
Description: A Community Member participates in the community and contributes their time, thoughts, etc. Community participants are usually users who have stopped being anonymous and started being active in project discussions.
* Responsibilities:

>     * Must follow the [CNCF CoC](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md)

Author: Sure

    * Following the project contributing guide
* Requirements (one or several of the below):
    * Occasionally submits PRs
    * Submits doc fixes
    * Regularly shows up at meetings, takes notes
    * Answers questions from other community members
    * Submits feedback on issues and PRs
    * Runs a meetup or other event
    * [TODO: other small contributions]
* Privileges:
    * Invitations to contributor events
    * Eligible to become an Organization Member

### Organization Member
<!--This role is used by many projects where you have to be a regular contributor to have the right to vote in project elections, or to be able to operate project
CI/CD automation.-->
<!--TODO: project leads to fill in exact details of this role for your project-->
Description: An Organization Member is an established contributor who regularly participates the project. Organization Members have privileges in both project repositories and elections, and as such are expected to act in the interests of the whole project.

An Organization Member must meet the responsibilites and has the requirements of a Contributor, plus:

* Responsibilities include: 

>     * Continues to contribute regularly, as demonstrated by having at least [TODO: Number] [TODO: Metric] a year, as demonstrated by [TODO: contributor metrics source].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Continues to contribute regularly, as demonstrated by having at least [TODO: Number] [TODO: Metric] to the organization per year, as demonstrated by [TODO: contributor metrics source].
```

> <!-- Example: "as demonstrated by having at least 50 Github contributions per year, as shown by Devstats"-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- Example: "as demonstrated by having at least 50 Github contributions to the organization per year, as shown by Devstats"-->
```

* Requirements:
    * Must have successful contribitons to the project, including at least one of the following:
        * [TODO: Number] accepted PRs,
        * Reviewed [TODO: Number] PRs,
        * Resolved and closed [TODO: Number] Issues,
        * Become responsible for a key project management area,
        * Or some equivalent combination or contribution
    * Must have been contributing for at least [TODO: Number] months
    * Must be actively contributing to at least one project area

>     * Must have two sponsors who are also Organization Members, at least one of whom does not work for the same employer

Reviewer 2: See revised language in my draft to deal with the very real situation that most projects will not initially have members from mroe than one company.

    * [TODO: other requirements] <!--TODO: such as repository access or enabling 2FA on their Github account -->

* Privileges:
    * May be assigned Issues and Reviews

>     * May give commands to CI/CD automation

Reviewer 3: Are we to assume that ALL projects will be under ci-bot control?

Author: That is still under investigation which depends on the CI/CD community needs/decision.

The process for a Contributor to become an Organization Member is as follows:

<!-- the process of becoming an organization member is going to depend strongly on how your project manages its infrastructure. TO DO: Project leads to fil in exact details of how a contributor becomes an organization member-->
* High skill for development and meaninful contribution to a project(s)
* Demonstrates leadership capabilities 
* Willing to mentor other contributors

### Reviewer
<!--TODO: project leads to fill in exact details of this role for your project-->
Description: A reviewer approves pull requests before they're merged by maintainers. May only have responsibility over a subarea of the project initially, where they have demonstrated domain expertise. A reviewer must meet the responsibilites and has the requirements of a Contributor, plus:

* Responsibilities include:
    * Reviewing pull requests in a timely manner
    * Following the reviewing guide
* Requirements:
    * Experience as a Contributor
* Additional privileges:
    * Has Github rights to approve pull requests

### Maintainer
<!--TODO: project leads to fill in exact details of this role for your project-->

> Description: A Maintainer is a contributor with commit access. Decisions and prioritizes about the project. Maintainer roles may include Community Managers, Project Managers, Release Managers, Docs Managers, and Subproject Lead. An Maintainer must meet the responsibilites and has the requirements of an Reviewer, plus:<!-- sometimes also a project lead - if so, please state in the role defintion -->

Reviewer 3: `A Maintainer is a contributor with commit access who makes decisions and about the project.`

Author: Resolved in this PR:  https://github.com/konveyor/community/pull/11

* Criteria
    * Willing to accept additional responsibilites
    * Ability to keep commitments and follow-up
    * Demonstrates project leadership

> #### Code Maintainer -> expansion pack

Reviewer 3: I think we need some language above the list here because I don't understand the purpose of this section.

Author: Resolved in this PR:  https://github.com/konveyor/community/pull/11

* Criteria
    * Experience as a contributor
    * Experience as an reviewer
* Responsibilities include:
    * Must follow the [CNCF CoC](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md)
    * Merge pull requests in a timely manner
    * Following the reviewing guide
    * Helping new contributors
    * Executing conference/speaking obligations
    * Handling konveyor relations
    * Speaking on behalf of the project publically
* Additional privileges:
    * Commit access to project repo(s)

## Inactivity
<!--TODO: project leads to fill in exact details for how you measure inactivity for your project-->

> It is important for contributors to be and stay active to set an example and show committment to the project. Inactivity is harmful to the project as it may lead to unexpected delays, contributor attrition, and a lost of trust in the project. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important for contributors to be and stay active to set an example and show commitment to the project. Inactivity is harmful to the project as it may lead to unexpected delays, contributor attrition, and loss of trust in the project. 
```

* Consequences of being inactive include:
    * Involuntary removal or demotion
    * Being asked to move to Emeritus status

## Involuntary Removal or Demotion
<!-- project leads may want to consider integrating this section under every role description -->

Involuntary removal/demotion of a contributor happens when responsibilites and requirements aren't being met. This may include repeated pattern of inactivity, extended period of inactivity, and/or a violation of the Code of Conduct. This process is important because it protects the community and its deliverables while also opens up opportunities for new contributors to step in.

Involuntary removal or demotion is handled by the community governence committe. 

## Stepping Down/Emeritus Process
If and when contributors' committment levels change, contributors can consider stepping down (moving down the contributor ladder) vs moving to emeritus status (completely stepping away from the project). 

Please reach out to the associated project lead(s) to discuss this process.

## Contacts
* For community needs/issues please reach out to:
    *  James Labocki - jlabocki@redhat.com
    *  Brett Thurber - bthurber@redhat.com

> * Project leads:

Reviewer 4: I'm wondering whether the leads should not only be limited to Engineering resources and include those with a vision of the strategic direction e.g. Miguel Perez Collino for Forklift, Ramon Roman Nissen for Tackle, etc.

Author: Makes sense to add.

    * Crane
        * John Matthews - jmatthew@redhat.com
        * Erik Nelson - ernelson@redhat.com
    * Forklift
        * Fabien Dupont - fdupont@redhat.com
    * Tackle
        * Phil Cattanach - pcattana@redhat.com
        * Marco Rizzi - mrizzi@redhat.com
    * Pelorus
        * Eric Sauer - esauer@redhat.com
    * Move2kube

>         * Ashok Ponkumar - ashokponkumar@gmail.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * Ashok Pon Kumar Sree Prakash - ashokponkumar@gmail.com
```
